well the down-the-line fruit comes from
the dandelion flower most seeds travel
about two meters in the parent plant but
there have been reports of these
parachuting fruit in get carried over
100 meters and are even reports of him
getting carried over vast swathe cease
to like 150 kilometers so it's unpowered
flight getting incredible distances each
down the line fruit is made up of a seed
connected to a feathery drag enhancing
purpose our parachute which calls a
purpose if you look down on top of the
Paris from above it's 90 percent empty
space between filaments does a thick
boundary layer and it effectively
prevents air from penetrating through
the parachute and so it turns to fluid
around a parachute and it dis generates
this vortex of flow above the dandelion
which kind of just sits above it like a
little halo and this low-pressure zone
enhances the drag coefficient of the
dandelion the amount of drag that it can
generate per unit area of material it's
quadruple that of what this could be and
when I say a disc I mean that's how we
design parachutes we design impermeable
surfaces if you gave evolution like
material and says K build me a parachute
and it built a disc not only would it
fall twice as fast at the dandelion
which is a bad thing because it's from a
stay open EF as long as possible but
also the wake that it would generate
with that material is a it would be
unstable whereas the down the line not
only does it get more drag it also
stabilize it awake so it's kind of like
it's it's we chicken a sweet spot in the
design space parachutes have been around
for quite a while now and it was a
pretty good at design approaches for
human flight it's just when you then
take those principles and then try to
miniaturize them down they don't quite
apply because things are being
miniaturized all the time and especially
flight if you said okay make me a
parachute and you got to some sort of
fabric and use that you you wouldn't
have an optimum solution evolution has
done all the hard work for us so you
know what why not just use that
you